Sometimes I'm in awe by the power the people taking lead in the web development wars have. Our peers have created some of the most influential platforms (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram), made historical data that more accessible (Wikipedia), and have created a torrent of services to minimize the time you waste on making appointments etc. But, since we are creating these services, making people more dependant on our services, we start to get more responsibility towards our users as well.

After Browser Technologies & CSSTR I started to envision that allot of developers, myself prior to these classes included, are making products with quite a destructive attitude. They are either not adding support for their product(s) on older devices, or don't even take into account not everyone uses bleeding edge products and ditch semantic, basic HTML altogether. This is a serious problem, not only because they are doing this, but because they aren't aware! And because of this problem, I have this strong urge that we, the people that are aware, should spread our knowledge. However, spreading knowledge and forcing it down people their throat are two different concepts.

But how can we make an impact on our co-workers?
For me it lies within our communication, step up for the common people and make it known semantic HTML is a thing, get it into your companies style guide, mentor the people around you about reliability, be it writing an application in a progressively enhanced way. Start a discussion about it with people against it, hear what they have to say, join forces and make something even better for your users. Communication is the only way to make it happen, and it's important to feel responsible for the way the web is evolving. Be it for your work, or the work of a random start-up company, joining forces will make the web a better place.

Of course, this being said, the web isn't an ideal world. People have biases, they use frameworks that generally make semantic HTML hard to do (bootstrap), or they think you are a messiah for some nutjob cult of programmers (framework fanatics for short). But that really shouldn't stop you from fighting what you believe in. Granted, sometimes what you preach will be dead wrong, sometimes even with horrible consequences, no one foresaw. This is something that really can't be stopped by doing anything. The only counter measurements you can take is by actually listening to your peers, and recognizing their work for what it is.

In the end, we have the power, so we should take responsibility for the destruction that can be done with said power.
